[docs] Add CI/CD tutorial (#44866)
expo/expo: docs/pages/tutorial/cicd/introduction.mdx

---
title: 'CI/CD Tutorial: Introduction'
sidebar_title: Introduction
description: An introduction to EAS Workflows tutorial and the core concepts for setting up a CI/CD pipeline for Expo and React Native apps.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { BuildsVsUpdates } from '~/ui/components/FlowDiagram/Diagrams/BuildsVsUpdates';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Prerequisites, Requirement } from '~/ui/components/Prerequisites';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> Building, testing, delivering an Expo and React Native app is rarely a one-step process. Each code change goes through a similar flow of building for Android and iOS, running unit and E2E tests, handing it off to teammates and QA, or the app stores. Doing this on every commit gets tedious fast, and it's exactly the kind of work a CI/CD pipeline should handle for you.

Author: **[suggestion]** Three small issues in this paragraph (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`, `expo-docs-style-guide.md#punctuation`): missing 'and' before 'delivering' (Oxford comma rule), the sentence 'handing it off to teammates and QA, or the app stores' conflates handing off to people with shipping to stores, and the closing 'should handle for you' switches voice from the tutorial's 'we/our' convention used in the very next paragraph.

```suggestion
Building, testing, and delivering an Expo and React Native app is rarely a one-step process. Each code change goes through a similar flow of building for Android and iOS, running unit and end-to-end (E2E) tests, and handing it off to teammates, QA, or the app stores. Doing this on every commit gets tedious fast, and it's exactly the kind of work a CI/CD pipeline should handle for us.
```

> Building, testing, and delivering an Expo and React Native app is rarely a one-step process. Each code change goes through a similar flow of building for Android and iOS, running unit and end-to-end (E2E) tests, and handing it off to teammates, QA, or the app stores. Doing this on every commit gets tedious fast, and it's exactly the kind of work a CI/CD pipeline should handle for us.
> 
> By the end of this tutorial, every push to our Expo project builds, tests, or ships automatically. The service that makes this possible is [EAS Workflows](/eas/workflows/introduction/), a Continuous Integration (CI)/Continuous Delivery (CD) service from Expo Application Services (EAS) for Expo and React Native apps.

Reviewer: The opening leads with the chore rather than the destination. Compared to how the SDK tutorial opens ("We're about to embark on a journey... Let's get started!"), this reads less welcoming - the payoff is buried in the second paragraph. Suggest leading with the destination and trimming the acronym expansions, since both terms link out for anyone who wants the definitions:

```suggestion
By the end of this tutorial, every push to our Expo app builds, tests, or ships automatically on Android, iOS, and web. The service that makes this possible is [EAS Workflows](/eas/workflows/introduction/), a CI/CD service from [Expo Application Services](https://expo.dev/eas).
```

Author: Keeping the problem-first opener as is. This context was added deliberately in an earlier iteration of this PR, based on review feedback, to paint a picture for beginners of why a CI/CD pipeline is useful before we introduce EAS Workflows. Leading with the destination would undo that setup for the audience this tutorial targets.

> An EAS Workflow is defined in a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file that lives in **.eas/workflows/** at the root of our project. Here is a complete example that builds an Android development build on every push to the `main` branch in a GitHub repository:

Author: **[design]** The product name is always plural — 'EAS Workflow' is on the avoid list (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#glossary-and-product-names`). Refer to the file/definition itself with lowercase 'workflow' when speaking about a single instance.

```suggestion
A workflow is defined in a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file that lives in **.eas/workflows/** at the root of our project. Here is a complete example that builds an Android development build on every push to the `main` branch in a GitHub repository:
```

> We define a workflow in a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file that lives in **.eas/workflows/** at the root of our project. Here is a complete example that builds an Android development build on every push to the `main` branch in a GitHub repository:

Reviewer: Small clarity tweak for monorepo users: "the root of our project" can be ambiguous (workspace root vs. app root). Saying "Expo project" makes the location unambiguous. (Same wording appears in a few other chapters - flagging each occurrence.)

```suggestion
We define a workflow in a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file that lives in **.eas/workflows/** at the root of our Expo project. Here is a complete example that builds an Android development build on every push to the `main` branch in a GitHub repository:
```

> A workflow is defined in a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file that lives in **.eas/workflows/** at the root of our project. Here is a complete example that builds an Android development build on every push to the `main` branch in a GitHub repository:

Author: **[suggestion]** Passive voice (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
We define a workflow in a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file that lives in **.eas/workflows/** at the root of our project. Here is a complete example that builds an Android development build on every push to the `main` branch in a GitHub repository:
```

```yaml .eas/workflows/build.yml
name: Build Android

on:
  push:
    branches: ['main']

jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: android
      profile: development
```

> That is the entire file. EAS handles the environment, compiles the native code, stores the artifact, and notifies our team. We write more workflows like this one throughout the tutorial.

Reviewer: "That is the entire file" restates what's already visible, and "notifies our team" oversells this example - the bare `build` job doesn't notify anyone (Slack notifications are set up later, in the preview builds chapter). The step list is also covered by the lead-in above and the next section. Suggest keeping just the payoff:

```suggestion
That handful of lines is the entire workflow, and EAS handles the rest. We build on this pattern throughout the tutorial.
```

> That is the entire file. EAS handles the environment, compiles the native code, stores the artifact, and notifies our team. We will write more workflows like this one throughout the tutorial.

Author: **[nit]** Use present tense; the style guide tells us to drop `will <verb>` constructions (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
That is the entire file. EAS handles the environment, compiles the native code, stores the artifact, and notifies our team. We write more workflows like this one throughout the tutorial.
```

## What is EAS Workflows and why use it?

> **EAS Workflows** is a CI/CD platform optimised for building, testing and deploying React Native and Expo proejects. It runs Android, iOS, and web builds, publishes OTA updates, submits to app stores, and runs E2E tests with Maestro, all from YAML files in our GitHub repository. Jobs run in a managed cloud environment, which means no build server setup on our end.

Author: **[critical]** This line has a typo ('proejects' → 'projects'), a UK spelling ('optimised' → 'optimized')':

```suggestion
**EAS Workflows** is a CI/CD platform optimized for building, testing, and deploying React Native and Expo projects. It runs Android, iOS, and web builds, publishes OTA updates, submits to app stores, and runs E2E tests with Maestro, all from YAML files in our GitHub repository. Jobs run in a managed cloud environment, which means no build server setup on our end.
```

> ## What is EAS Workflows and why use it?
> 
> **EAS Workflows** is a CI/CD platform optimized for building, testing, and deploying React Native and Expo projects. It runs Android, iOS, and web builds, publishes OTA updates, submits to app stores, and runs E2E tests with Maestro, all from YAML files in our GitHub repository. Jobs run in a managed cloud environment, which means no build server setup on our end.
> 
> We can trigger workflows from GitHub events (push, pull request, tags, or labels), from schedules (cron), or manually using [EAS CLI](/eas/cli/).

Reviewer: The opener already defines EAS Workflows, so the first sentence here defines it a second time, and "all from YAML files in our GitHub repository" re-explains the example shown right above. Suggest committing the section to the "why" and connecting back to the demo (also links OTA on its first use):

```suggestion
## Why use EAS Workflows?

EAS Workflows runs Android, iOS, and web builds, publishes [OTA updates](/deploy/send-over-the-air-updates/), submits to app stores, and runs E2E tests with Maestro, all defined in YAML files like the example above. Because jobs run in a managed cloud environment, there is no build server for us to set up or maintain.

We can trigger workflows from GitHub events (push, pull request, tags, or labels), on a schedule (cron), or manually with EAS CLI.
```

> Workflows may be triggered from GitHub events (push, pull request, tags, or labels), from schedules (cron), or manually using [EAS CLI](/eas/cli/).

Author: **[suggestion]** Passive voice (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
We can trigger workflows from GitHub events (push, pull request, tags, or labels), from schedules (cron), or manually using [EAS CLI](/eas/cli/).
```

## Topics covered

> The tutorial has three phases:

Reviewer: nit: "Extensions" is a set of optional add-ons rather than a pipeline phase, so "parts" may fit better:

```suggestion
The tutorial has three parts:
```

> - **Development.** Create custom jobs, automate [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) with fingerprinting, and ship PR preview updates for stakeholders.

Author: **[nit]** Expand 'PR' on first mention (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#word-usage`). PR is not on the no-expand exempt list.

```suggestion
- **Development.** Create custom jobs, automate [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) with fingerprinting, and ship pull request (PR) preview updates for stakeholders.
```

> - **Development.** Create custom jobs, automate [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) with fingerprinting, and ship pull request (PR) preview updates for stakeholders.

Reviewer: Two forward links would help here: fingerprinting is the concept readers most often skip to, and "PR preview updates" has a chapter that delivers it. (Keeping the "pull request (PR)" spell-out - first use on this page per the style guide.)

```suggestion
- **Development.** Create custom jobs, automate [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) with [fingerprinting](/tutorial/cicd/development-builds/), and ship [pull request (PR) preview updates](/tutorial/cicd/preview-builds/) for stakeholders.
```

- **Testing and releasing.** Run E2E tests with Maestro in a workflow, then create a production workflow that uses fingerprinting to choose between a native build and an OTA update.
- **Extensions.** Switch production triggers from branches to version tags and deploy web builds with [EAS Hosting](/eas/hosting/introduction/).

> After this tutorial, we know how to set up a CI/CD pipeline for an Expo app.
> 

Reviewer: This sentence echoes the opener's promise, and the tense reads off ("After this tutorial, we know"). Suggest cutting it - the opener already covers the goal:

```suggestion
```

> After this tutorial, we will know how to set up a CI/CD pipeline for an Expo app.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
After this tutorial, we know how to set up a CI/CD pipeline for an Expo app.
```

> ## Before we write any YAML
> 
> > **info** **Tip:** Already familiar with EAS Build and EAS Update? Skip to the next section.
> 
> Adding YAML files to our project is how we define jobs to create and run workflows. EAS Workflows automates these jobs that most Expo developers do by hand.
> 
> Before we create our first workflow, here are a few concepts worth knowing:

Reviewer: Two things: the page already wrote YAML above this point (the `build.yml` example), and the section content is EAS concepts, not YAML - so the heading mislabels it. The "Adding YAML files..." lead-in also re-explains "workflows are YAML" once more. Suggest naming the section for what it is and opening straight at the concepts line:

```suggestion
## Concepts worth knowing first

> **info** **Tip:** Already familiar with EAS Build and EAS Update? Skip to the next section.

Before we create our first workflow, here are a few concepts worth knowing:
```

> <Collapsible summary="Where can an Expo app ship from?">
> 
> An Expo app can target three deployment targets by default. Each one uses a different EAS service or a combination of two services:

Reviewer: "Where can an Expo app ship from?" reads directionally odd (an app ships *to* a target), and a scenario hook makes the box more inviting for the beginner audience. Suggest framing it around a moment the reader recognizes:

```suggestion
<Collapsible summary="When you ship a change, where does it go?">

Say you fix a bug and want users to have it right away. What happens next, and which EAS service delivers it, depends on what changed. An Expo app can ship to three targets:
```

Author: Good catch on the ship from/to direction. Applied a more direct variant instead of the scenario hook: summary "Where does an Expo app ship?" with the body "An Expo app can ship to three targets. Which one, and which EAS service delivers it, depends on what changed in the code:". It keeps your "depends on what changed" setup for the table while staying direct and in the tutorial's we/our voice.

| Target            | EAS service              | When to use                                                         |
| ----------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| App stores        | EAS Build and EAS Submit | New releases, native code changes                                   |

> | Installed devices | EAS Update               | TypeScript/JavaScript only fixes, delivered over the air in seconds |

Reviewer: "TypeScript/JavaScript only fixes" slightly undersells updates (they ship features too, not just fixes) and wants a hyphen as a compound modifier:

```suggestion
| Installed devices | EAS Update               | TypeScript/JavaScript-only changes, delivered over the air in seconds |
```

Author: Applied the hyphen (TypeScript/JavaScript-only). Keeping "fixes" though: that is the framing we use for OTA updates in this tutorial, positioned for quick fixes rather than feature delivery.

> | Installed devices | EAS Update               | TypeScript (TS)/JavaScript (JS) only fixes, delivered over the air in seconds |

Author: **[nit]** TS and JS are in the approved short-form list (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#word-usage`) and do not need parenthetical expansion. The (TS)/(JS) abbreviations are also unused later on the page.

```suggestion
| Installed devices | EAS Update               | TypeScript/JavaScript only fixes, delivered over the air in seconds |
```

| Web               | EAS Hosting              | Web app alongside native releases                                             |

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Build profiles">

> [EAS Build](/build/introduction/) is a service for building app binaries for our Expo projects. It supports three build profiles by default: `development`, `preview`, and `production`. Each profile corresponds to a different stage of development. We are going to use each of these three profiles in this tutorial.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense; `going to use` is the future construction the style guide warns against (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
[EAS Build](/build/introduction/) is a service for building app binaries for our Expo projects. It supports three build profiles by default: `development`, `preview`, and `production`. Each profile corresponds to a different stage of development. We use each of these three profiles in this tutorial.
```

</Collapsible>

> <Collapsible summary="Builds vs Updates">

Author: **[nit]** The `summary` becomes a heading slug, so sentence case applies, and 'vs' takes a period (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#formatting-and-structure`).

```suggestion
<Collapsible summary="Builds vs. updates">
```

Like EAS Build, [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/) is a service that serves OTA updates for Expo projects using the [`expo-updates`](/versions/latest/sdk/updates/) library.

<BuildsVsUpdates />

- EAS Build compiles native code into a full app binary. Builds take longer to run. We need a new build when native code in our project changes. For example, adding a new native library, changing permissions, or upgrading the Expo SDK.

> - EAS Update delivers TypeScript/JavaScript changes over-the-air to devices that already have a compatible native build installed. If a change requires native code, we need to create and install that build before publishing an update so that each update published remains compatible with the build it targets. It takes seconds to publish an update. For example, we can publish an update to fix a UI bug or change the copy of a button.

Author: **[suggestion]** Sentence is ~30 words with a chained `so that` clause (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). Consider splitting.

```suggestion
- EAS Update delivers TypeScript/JavaScript changes over-the-air to devices that already have a compatible native build installed. If a change requires native code, we create and install that build before publishing an update. That way, each update remains compatible with the build it targets. Publishing an update itself takes seconds. For example, we can publish an update to fix a UI bug or change the copy of a button.
```

Depending on the change, we use one service or the other. EAS Workflows wires them together so the pipeline can decide when to build and when to publish an update.

</Collapsible>

## Prerequisites

> **info** **Tip:** Already have an Expo project set up with EAS Build and EAS Update? Skip to the next chapter.

> This tutorial is a hands-on experience. To make progress, we need an existing Expo project that uses [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/) to follow along and set it up on our machine and EAS with the following requirements:

Author: **[suggestion]** Second sentence carries three connected ideas in one line: we need a CNG-based Expo project, we need to set it up on our machine and EAS, and there are specific requirements (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). Splitting at the first `and` lets the requirements clause read as a clean lead-in to the `Prerequisites` block.

```suggestion
This tutorial is a hands-on experience. To make progress, we need an existing Expo project that uses [Continuous Native Generation](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/). Set it up on our machine and EAS with the following requirements:
```

<Prerequisites>

<Requirement title="An Expo account">

> We will need to [sign up](https://expo.dev/signup) for an Expo account.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
We need to [sign up](https://expo.dev/signup) for an Expo account.
```

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="Install EAS CLI and log in">

To install EAS CLI, run the following command:

<Terminal
  cmd={{
    npm: ['$ npm install --global eas-cli'],
    yarn: ['$ yarn global add eas-cli'],
    pnpm: ['$ pnpm add -g eas-cli'],
    bun: ['$ bun add -g eas-cli'],
  }}
/>

Then, run the following login command to authenticate EAS CLI with the Expo account:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas login']} />

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="Create an Expo project">

To create a new Expo project, run the following command:

<Terminal
  cmd={{
    npm: ['$ npx create-expo-app@latest --template default@sdk-55'],
    yarn: ['$ yarn create expo-app --template default@sdk-55'],
    pnpm: ['$ pnpm create expo-app --template default@sdk-55'],
    bun: ['$ bun create expo --template default@sdk-55'],
  }}
/>

> Creating a new project with `create-expo-app` will set up a project without native **android** and **ios** directories committed. This pattern is called Continuous Native Generation (CNG) and EAS Build creates those native project directories for us automatically.

Author: **[suggestion]** Present tense per the voice rules (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). 'will set up' → 'sets up'.

```suggestion
Creating a new project with `create-expo-app` sets up a project without native **android** and **ios** directories committed. This pattern is called Continuous Native Generation (CNG) and EAS Build creates those native project directories for us automatically.
```

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="Initialize EAS in the project">

To initialize EAS in our project, run the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build:configure']} />

> This generates an **eas.json** file in the root of our project and creates an EAS project linked to our local project.

Reviewer: Same monorepo-clarity tweak as above - "Expo project" removes the workspace-root ambiguity:

```suggestion
This generates an **eas.json** file in the root of our Expo project and creates an EAS project linked to our local project.
```

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="GitHub repository linked with EAS dashboard">

> We will need a GitHub repository for the project. We can create a new repository or use an existing one. Then, connect the GitHub repository to EAS:

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
We need a GitHub repository for the project. We can create a new repository or use an existing one. Then, connect the GitHub repository to EAS:
```

1. Navigate to the project's [GitHub settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[projectName]/github) on the EAS dashboard.
2. Follow the UI in the dashboard to install the Expo GitHub app.
3. Select the GitHub repository that matches the Expo project and connect it.

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="Store submission credentials for EAS Submit (optional)">

Only needed if we add automated app store submission as an adaptation after Chapter 5. See the [Google Play Store](/submit/android/) and [Apple App Store](/submit/ios/) guides for instructions on how to configure credentials for EAS Submit.

</Requirement>

</Prerequisites>

## Coming from GitHub Actions?

> EAS Workflows files live inside the **.eas/workflows/** directory at the root of an Expo project. If we have used GitHub Actions before, those workflows live in **.github/workflows/**.
> 
> The trigger syntax (`on.push`, `on.pull_request`, and so on) is similar to GitHub Actions, but not identical. The biggest difference is pre-packaged jobs. There is no `runs-on` or setup step for us to write. When we set `type: build`, EAS handles the environment and the build artifacts for us. We cover these differences throughout the tutorial.

Reviewer: This section is positioned as reassurance for GitHub Actions users, but most of its words go to differences ("not identical", "biggest difference"), which works against that goal. Suggest leading with the similarity and trimming the differences to one forward-pointing line:

```suggestion
If you've used GitHub Actions, EAS Workflows will feel familiar. Same idea: workflows are YAML files in your repository (in **.eas/workflows/** instead of **.github/workflows/**), and the trigger syntax (`on.push`, `on.pull_request`, and so on) looks much the same.

The main difference is pre-packaged jobs: setting `type: build` lets EAS handle the environment and build artifacts, with no `runs-on` or setup step to write. We cover these as we go.
```

Author: Applied the reassurance-first structure with your pre-packaged jobs paragraph as is. For the opener we went with a direct parallel-facts version instead of "will feel familiar" (states the location and trigger-syntax similarities as facts, keeps the tutorial's we/our voice and present tense).

> The trigger syntax (`on.push`, `on.pull_request`, and so on) is similar to GitHub Actions, but not identical. The biggest difference is pre-packaged jobs. There is no `runs-on` or setup step for us to write. When we set `type: build`, EAS handles the environment and the build artifacts for us. We will cover these differences throughout the tutorial.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
The trigger syntax (`on.push`, `on.pull_request`, and so on) is similar to GitHub Actions, but not identical. The biggest difference is pre-packaged jobs. There is no `runs-on` or setup step for us to write. When we set `type: build`, EAS handles the environment and the build artifacts for us. We cover these differences throughout the tutorial.
```

---
title: 'CI/CD Tutorial: Introduction'
sidebar_title: Introduction
description: An introduction to EAS Workflows tutorial and the core concepts for setting up a CI/CD pipeline for Expo and React Native apps.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { BuildsVsUpdates } from '~/ui/components/FlowDiagram/Diagrams/BuildsVsUpdates';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Prerequisites, Requirement } from '~/ui/components/Prerequisites';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> By the end of this tutorial, every push to our Expo project builds, tests, or ships automatically. The service that makes this possible is [EAS Workflows](/eas/workflows/introduction/), a Continuous Integration (CI)/Continuous Delivery (CD) service from Expo Application Services (EAS) for Expo and React Native apps.

Reviewer 2: It feels odd to start the tutorial off with the words "By the end of this tutorial". I think we need a short paragraph before this to set the scene (this is also what the other tutorials have).

> An EAS Workflow is a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file that lives in **.eas/workflows/** at the root of our project. Here is a complete example that builds an Android development build on every push to the `main` branch in a GitHub repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An EAS Workflow is defined in a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file that lives in **.eas/workflows/** at the root of our project. Here is a complete example that builds an Android development build on every push to the `main` branch in a GitHub repository:
```

```yaml .eas/workflows/build.yml
name: Build Android

on:
  push:
    branches: ['main']

jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: android
      profile: development
```

That is the entire file. EAS handles the environment, compiles the native code, stores the artifact, and notifies our team. We will write more workflows like this one throughout the tutorial.

## What is EAS Workflows and why use it?

> **EAS Workflows** runs Android, iOS, and web builds, publishes OTA updates, submits to app stores, and runs E2E tests with Maestro, all from YAML files in our GitHub repository. Jobs run in a managed cloud environment, which means no build server setup on our end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**EAS Workflows** is a CI/CD platform optimised for building, testing and deploying React Native and Expo proejects. It runs Android, iOS, and web builds, publishes OTA updates, submits to app stores, and runs E2E tests with Maestro, all from YAML files in our GitHub repository. Jobs run in a managed cloud environment, which means no build server setup on your end.
```

> Our team triggers workflows from GitHub events (push, pull request, tags, or labels), from schedules (cron), or manually using [EAS CLI](/eas/cli/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Workflows may be triggered from GitHub events (push, pull request, tags, or labels), from schedules (cron), or manually using [EAS CLI](/eas/cli/).
```

Adding YAML files to our project is how we define jobs to create and run workflows. EAS Workflows automates these jobs that most Expo developers do by hand.

Before we create our first workflow, here are a few concepts worth knowing:

<Collapsible summary="Where can an Expo app ship from?">

An Expo app can target three deployment targets by default. Each one uses a different EAS service or a combination of two services:

| Target            | EAS service              | When to use                                                                   |
| ----------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| App stores        | EAS Build and EAS Submit | New releases, native code changes                                             |
| Installed devices | EAS Update               | TypeScript (TS)/JavaScript (JS) only fixes, delivered over the air in seconds |
| Web               | EAS Hosting              | Web app alongside native releases                                             |

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Build profiles">

> [EAS Build](/build/introduction/) is a service for building app binaries for our Expo projects. It supports three build profiles by default and each profile corresponds to a different stage of development. We are going to use each of these three profiles in this tutorial.

Reviewer 2: Should we list the 3 profiles?

</Collapsible>

> <Collapsible summary="Builds vs Updates">

Reviewer 2: Should note here that an update is only possible if a compatible native build already exists.

    bun: ['$ bun add -g eas-cli'],
  }}
/>

Then, run the following login command to authenticate EAS CLI with the Expo account:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas login']} />

</Requirement>

<Requirement number={3} title="Create an Expo project">

To create a new Expo project, run the following command:

<Terminal
  cmd={{
    npm: ['$ npx create-expo-app@latest --template default@sdk-55'],
    yarn: ['$ yarn create expo-app --template default@sdk-55'],
    pnpm: ['$ pnpm create expo-app --template default@sdk-55'],
    bun: ['$ bun create expo --template default@sdk-55'],
  }}
/>

Creating a new project with `create-expo-app` will set up a project without native **android** and **ios** directories committed. This pattern is called Continuous Native Generation (CNG) and EAS Build creates those native project directories for us automatically.

</Requirement>

<Requirement number={4} title="Initialize EAS in the project">

To initialize EAS in our project, run the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build:configure']} />

This generates an **eas.json** file in the root of our project and creates an EAS project linked to our local project.

</Requirement>

> <Requirement number={5} title="EAS Update configured">

Reviewer 2: Suggestion - could we do this next to the chapter where we actually need it? The next chapter for example doesn't need updates.

To configure EAS Update, install the `expo-updates` library:

<Terminal
  cmd={{
    npm: ['$ npx expo install expo-updates'],
    yarn: ['$ yarn dlx expo install expo-updates'],
    pnpm: ['$ pnpm dlx expo install expo-updates'],
    bun: ['$ bunx expo install expo-updates'],
  }}
/>

</Requirement>

<Requirement number={6} title="EAS Build configured">

> > **important** We need EAS Build to trigger builds for each profile at least once for both Android and iOS. This is required because EAS CLI needs to create/manage credentials on EAS. When we run each command below, EAS CLI will prompt us to generate credentials.

Reviewer 2: Same for this, it will be quite time consuming and will cost credits - so best to do it only before the relevant chapter (so folks could choose to omit the prereq if they're not interested in the given chapter)

We can run the following commands to trigger builds for each profile:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# For development build profile',
    '$ eas build --profile development --platform all',
    '',
    '# For preview build profile',
    '$ eas build --profile preview --platform all',
    '',
    '# For production build profile',
    '$ eas build --profile production --platform all',
  ]}
/>

Since we have already configured EAS Update, each build profile will be linked to a channel which is required to publish updates for that build profile.

</Requirement>

<Requirement number={7} title="GitHub repository linked with EAS dashboard">

> We will need a GitHub repository for the project. We can create a new repository or use an existing one. The repository should be linked to the local Expo project and pushed to GitHub.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what "The repository should be linked to the local Expo project" means.
